add tools (#12)
tonic-team/tonic.site: content/tooling/synchronisationscripts/index.md

---
title: Synchronisation scripts
---

## Our Goal

By double clicking one file, the local version and the server version of
the data will be synchronized.
Users can therefore use GIN-Tonic without using the command line,
and it automate complex action when there are submodules.

- both on windows, mac and linux
- work also when data is in (different) submodules

> - work with GIN and other git based repositories

Author: ```suggestion
Here are listed our wish for the scripts, note that the present version does not fulfil the whole list.

- work on windows, mac and linux
- work also when data is in (different) submodules
- work with GIN and other git based repositories
```

## Current Version

The current version of the file is:

- a bash script
- work for GIN repositories only,
- work with submodules (all synchronised using a single commit message).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Note that synchronisation does work with a gin identification, but the initialisation of the script requires SSH access (gin does not support submodules).

```

> A relatively complex process will allow windows users to call the bash script.

Author: ```suggestion
We are testing different process and workflow to allow windows users to call the bash script.
```
